hey guys my name is J I'm one of the
expert TOEFL teachers here at e to
language in this lesson we're going to
have a look at this question type which
is TOEFL reading skill number 10 it's
called table it's quite different from
all of the other question types the
objective of this lesson is for you to
understand this question type and more
importantly to learn how to answer it
accurately in order to do that we're
going to have a look at the task I'm
going to describe the task to you I'm
going to teach you a simple method so
you can answer this question because it
is quite complicated and then I'll give
you an opportunity to practice for
yourself so firstly task description
what does this task look like on test
day holy moley you're going to see a
passage of text like this don't freak
out too much you need to take notes on
this passage of text of course you will
ignore a lot of the detail but you need
to be able to summarize the main ideas
from this passage onto your scratch pad
ok cool we'll do some practice in a
minute then you'll see the question and
it will look like this and it looks
quite different to the other question
types what can we see here well we can
see an instruction up here and it says
basically drag your choices to the
spaces where they belong
so what you have to do is you have to
drag these into the correct category of
statements right now you can see here
type of storm for example thunderstorm
or tropical cyclone and you have to drag
the correct answer option into the
correct category based on the passage
hmm that's pretty complicated so let's
learn a method to do this accurately
whoopsie step 1 I want you to read the
passage and take notes so you look at
this and you'll get your scratch pad and
you'll ignore details and you'll write
down the main points here and of course
in addition to your notes you will use
your memory
and writing notes will in fact bolster
your memory so it's all helpful so my
notes look like this for example now
you'll notice that they're not full
sentences and I've just I've just
written ice storms most dangerous winter
storm surface temp freezing
for example thunderstorms lightning and
thunder heavy precipitation and what you
will notice from the passage let's go
back to the passage oops here it is here
you can see that there are four
paragraphs here this one's about ice
storms this one's about thunderstorms
this one's about tropical cyclones and
so your passage will be quite similar to
this where the paragraph will contain
the main theme here okay so then we
write down our notes based on those
themes like ice storms thunderstorms
tropical cyclone and some main points
from the paragraph fine now we go to
step two we need to look at the
categories in the table because as we
saw before type of storm well we've got
thunderstorm and tropical cyclone but no
ice storm so in fact you won't need your
notes about ice storms although you will
find in the answer options here points
or information from ice storm so that's
the little trick because here you've got
four points right and here you've got
six so two of them will be irrelevant or
not needed and possibly from the other
paragraph fine step three read the
answer options let's read them form in
the ocean okay let's let's have a look
at this one form in the ocean now we can
immediately sort of think okay that's
probably tropical cycle and let's put
that there but just be careful make sure
that you choose based on the passage of
text because it may be thunderstorm or
it may even be ice storm
okay make roads dangerous to drive on
you may think I'll ice storm but again
make sure you get this information from
the passage occur most frequently in
tropical rainforest regions may be
referred to by different name
accompanied by heavy rain may bring
cities to a standstill okay this brings
us to step four where we match our notes
to the correct answer options let's have
a look at our notes here so we've just
looking at thunderstorms and tropical
cyclones so let's just look at this one
here
lightning and thunder heavy
precipitation now let's read the answer
options and see which one it matches to
form in the ocean make roads dangerous
to drive on her most frequently in
tropical rain forest regions may be
referred to by different names company
by heavy rain mmm accompanied by heavy
rain heavy rain heavy precipitation aha
so I found a note here sorry I found an
answer option that matches my note and
what category is it it's thunderstorms
fine
so it leads us to step five where we
place the answer options in the category
based on our notes okay
so what have we got here well as we saw
before thunderstorms we had heavy
precipitation accompanied by heavy rain
and so we dragged this one into the
category of thunderstorms right same as
this one here our note said high
frequency in tropical rainforest regions
high temps and humidity the note here
was occurs most frequently in tropical
rainforest region and matches our notes
and so we drag this into the
thunderstorm category and we do the same
for tropical cyclones form in the oceans
where is it here form in the ocean it's
almost exactly the same known by various
terms of course this is going to be a
synonym may be referred to by different
names
this is psych tropical cyclones and so
we drag that one into there and of
course we have two that we didn't use
there we go that's fine
and practice time for you right I want
you to read this passage of
and take notes pause the video take
notes ignore details read it for meaning
I want you to understand it
how did you go did you take notes I
please if you haven't go back and do
this because really there's one way to
learn how to do TOEFL reading and that's
by doing TOEFL reading it really helps
to do this anyway let's look at the
question now so the question is this in
fact you need three answer options here
so now what I want you to do is I want
you to match your notes to the answer
options and well Ani two language comm
if you're a member of e2 language comm
by the way you can do this task and do
use the drag-and-drop function because
we're on a video we'll just have to
imagine that imagine what I want you to
do is match your notes to the answer
options and imagine dragging and
dropping the answer option into the
correct category give yourself a minute
or two to do this one
how did you go let's take a look at the
answers there all right should be
answers plural anyway right so let me
just move my little drawing bar here
okay okay okay so the categories were
air pollution and resource scarcity and
the statements were that toxic dust
exceeds limits and breaks laws we can
see that statement here I'm not sure
what your note was but it could have
been something similar resource scarcity
while climate caused by climate change
and population growth the actual text
said climate change drought and urban
population growth have raised natural
resource scarcity to the level of
national security I'm not sure what your
note was but you should have dragged
this answer option into here and the
final one under resource scarcity was
well in the text it said farmers should
not use publicly subsidized water to
grow low value water guzzling crops like
alfalfa for export the answer option was
here water guzzling crops should not be
cultivated for export so that actually
belonged here in the category of
resource scarcity this is a complicated
question type for TOEFL success go to e
to language comm and I strongly
recommend that you do sign up for a pay
package so you can practice well all of
the TOEFL reading questions but this one
in particular because it is tricky cool
thanks for watching don't forget to
click like subscribe leave a nice
comment my name's Jay I'll see you soon